docs: readme and images matching actual Arsenik (#26)
OneDeadKey/arsenik: README.md

Table of contents
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- [Philosophy](#philosophy)
- [Features](#pick-your-poison)
  1. [Angle mod](#1-angle-mod)
  2. [Mod-taps](#2-supercharge-your-thumbs-with-mod-taps)
  3. [Symbols layer](#3-symbols-layer)
  4. [Navigation layer](#4-navigation-layer)
  5. [Keyboard layout](#5-keyboard-layout)
  6. [Extra customization](#bonus-spice-it-up)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Why “Arsenik”?](#why-arsenik)
- [Join the community](#join-the-community)

Philosophy
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Bring the keys to your fingers, rather than moving your fingers to the keys.**

Not sure if you should buy that expensive ergonomic keyboard?

Download a ready-to-use Arsenik configuration for [Kanata], and enjoy on your
regular keyboard features that were normally only accessible to programmable
keyboard.

*Note: You might benefit the most of Arsenik if you are [touch typing].*

Pick Your Poison!
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Choose which Arsenik features to use from the following options:

### 1. Angle mod

> On an ISO keyboard, it permuts the extra down left key to ease the angle on your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On an ISO keyboard, it permutes the extra down-left key to ease the angle on your
```

- the spacebar brings the <kbd>Navigation</kbd> layer when held (in orange).

![alt, navigation and sym layers under the thumbs](./img/layer_taps.svg)

Having <kbd>Backspace</kbd> and <kbd>Enter</kbd> under the thumbs is enough to
reduce the pinky fatigue very significantly. And using the <kbd>Symbols</kbd>
and <kbd>Navigation</kbd> layers further reduces hand and finger movements.

#### Next level: enable the Home Row Mods

When you are familiar with mod-taps, it’s time to enable them on the home row
with the “HRM” variants:

- <kbd>FDS</kbd> and <kbd>JKL</kbd> become <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>, <kbd>Alt</kbd>,
<kbd>Super</kbd> when held long enough;
- the left thumb key can now emit a <kbd>Shift</kbd> rather than <kbd>Alt</kbd>
when held.

![home row mods on SDF keys](./img/hrm.svg)

This is a very basic variant of the [Miryoku] principle: one layer on each
thumb key, and symmetrical modifiers on the home row.

### 3. Symbols layer

For the <kbd>Symbols</kbd> layer you can keep <kbd>AltGr</kbd> as-is. It is
useful for keyboard layouts that rely heavily on the <kbd>AltGr</kbd> key.

But the real fun (especially for programmers) happens when we enable the “One 

> Dead Key” (= 1DK) programmation layer!

Reviewer: I’m not sure “1DK” is relevant in the context of the Symbols layer. (And yes I’m aware this is the org name I’ve chosen…)

We usually refer to this layer as “Lafayette” but I guess “Arsenik” would be okay too.
@Nuclear-Squid wdyt?

Reviewer 2: 1DK layer is really misleading for layouts in the Lafayette Family, on top of it not being relevant in this context so I agree on *not* using this.

As for Arsenik / Selenium / Lafayette, I’ll be a pedant and say that Lafayette makes more sense : This “prog layer” only serves to emulate what we designed for the Lafayette layouts. It’s not an Arsenik / Selenium innovation, it’s a Lafayette innovation (just like how Selenium has a “vim nav” layer : we didn’t invent arrows on `hjkl`, but we are emulating it because it’s really cool).

Yes, the “1DFH philosophy” is shared with Arsenik, but so is a *lot* of design decisions with the Lafayette layouts, and this prog layer is *exactly the same* across all of them. If we had a layer to emulate Colemak on Qwerty (for instance), we would have called it a “Colemak layer” without thinking, and I feel “Lafayette” makes sense for the same reason.

![1dk symbols layer on a 33-key keyboard](./img/symbols.svg)

#### Num row >> Num pad

If enabled, in <kbd>Symbols</kbd> mode, pressing the left thumb key brings up
the <kbd>NumRow</kbd> layer:

- all digits are on the home row, in the order you already know
- the upper row helps with <kbd>Shift</kbd>-digit shortcuts
- the lower row has dash, comma, dot and slash signs to help with number / date
inputs

> - <kbd>Space</kbd> becomes a narrow no-break space for layouts that supports it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <kbd>Space</kbd> becomes <kbd>Shift</kbd><kbd>Space</kbd>, which can be
a no-break space for layouts that support it
```

Author: It happens to be shift+space because the layout we support for now have their narrow no-break space with this combo, but the idea is mostly to produce a nnbs, not necessarily with this combo if the defalias of the keyboard layout define nnbs with another combo (I hope you get what I mean by that).

![NumRow layer on a 33-key keyboard](./img/numrow.svg)

Even on keyboards that *do* have a physical number row, this `NumRow`layer can
be interesting to use in order to minimize finger movements furthermore.

### 4. Navigation layer

A basic <kbd>Navigation</kbd> layer has an arrow cluster on the left hand to
move around and a num pad on the right hand.

![navigation layer on a 33-key keyboard](./img/navigation.svg)

#### A superpowered Vim-friendly mod

> For those who like to move the cursor with <kbd>HJKL</kbd> in all app, with any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those who like to move the cursor with <kbd>HJKL</kbd> in all apps with any
```

keyboard layout, it is possible to enable a Vim-like <kbd>Navigation</kbd>
layer.

It also has:
- super-comfortable <kbd>Tab</kbd> and <kbd>Shift</kbd>-<kbd>Tab</kbd>
- mouse emulation: previous / next and mouse scroll

![Vim navigation layer on a 33-key keyboard](./img/vim_navigation.svg)

This <kbd>Navigation</kbd> layer has a few empty slots on purpose, so you can
add our own keys or layers.

> <kbd>NumPad</kbd> and <kbd>Fn</kbd> toggle these layers, they stay active

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<kbd>NumPad</kbd> and <kbd>Fn</kbd> lock these layers: they remain active
```

without holding the key until escaped with <kbd>Alt</kbd> or <kbd>AltGr</kbd>.

![NumPad layer on a 33-key keyboard](./img/numpad.svg)
<p align="center">
  <em>NumPad layer toggled</em>
</p>

![Fn layer on a 33-key keyboard](./img/fn.svg)
<p align="center">
  <em>Fn layer toggled</em>
</p>

### 5. Keyboard layout

Choose your keyboard layout among the available ones for Arsenik to work
properly.

If your layout is not on this list, feel free to open an issue or upvote an
existing one.

> Here is some specifities for some supported layouts:

Reviewer: I think we should mention here that Arsenik works out-of-the-box with Lafayette layouts because their AltGr layer already matches Arsenik’s Symbols layer. And Qwerty/Colemak should work too with the same Symbols layer.

The way it is now, it kinda lets me think Arsenik has been designed for Azerty first.

Author: Agreed, I’ve added `Ergo‑L/Qwerty‑Lafayette/other Lafayette layouts` and `Qwerty/Colemak` blocks.

> Here is some specifities for some supported layouts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some caveats for some specific layouts:
```

to Arsenik!

The 300 ms delay before a key becomes a modifier has been chosen to be easy for
beginners. Once used to mod-taps, you may want to reduce it so keyboard
shortcuts can be done more quickly.

In the <kbd>NumRow</kbd> layer, you can edit the <kbd>dk1</kbd> to 
<kbd>dk5</kbd> shortcuts to put whatever seams useful to you, a lot of available
keys are defined in [Kanata source code][Kanata keys].

In the <kbd>Navigation</kbd> layer, you can put a command on top of the
<kbd>P</kbd> key (in Qwerty), e.g. for an application launcher.

Note that Kanata can also use the laptop’s trackpoint buttons (e.g. ThinkPad)
as two additional thumb keys. :-)

Installation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Adjusting to compact keyboard layouts isn’t easy, but Arsenik is designed for
a step-by-step approach:

- load `kanata.kbd` with Kanata ([installation instructions](kanata))
- enable each feature by un-commenting the related line (a commented line starts
with `;;`), you must enable one and only one line per feature
- live-reload the configuration with <kbd>Space</kbd>+<kbd>Backspace</kbd>

> (requires the feature layer-taps enabled)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(requires the layer-taps feature enabled)
```

If you have a programmable keyboard you might want to take a look at the
[QMK](qmk) version of Arsenik (work in progress).

Other desktop implementations (kmonad, keyd, Karabiner…) would be nice to see as
well.

Why “Arsenik”?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

33 keys layout: the 33rd element of the periodic table.

Unlike Miryoku which requires 6 thumb keys, Arsenik has been designed to work
with standard ANSI/ISO/laptop keyboards, leveraging the spacebar and the two
Alt/Cmd keys.

### Inspiration

- [Miryoku] for the main idea of using modifiers on the home row and layer
shifters under the thumbs;
- [Lafayette] and [Ergo-L] for the <kbd>Symbol</kbd> layer, which has been
shamelessly taken *as is*;
- [Extend], [Neo], [Shaka34] for the <kbd>Navigation</kbd> layer.

### Alternative Symbol Layers

- [Neo]
- [Seniply]
- [Pascal Getreuer’s]

### Non-Goals

- being the most efficient 3×5 layout — [Miryoku] is probably the most
advanced approach for that, at least on custom 36-key keyboards; and each person
its own configuration for their needs will be more efficient, even if Arsenik

> can serve at a starting point

Reviewer: I’d suggest to replace the sub-sentence after the semicolon by a bullet point, e.g.:

```md
- suiting every user out-of-the-box — Arsenik is proposed as a reasonable default configuration,
but users are encouraged to customize it to suit their personal needs and preferences;
```

Author: Agreed, it’s a lot clearer to read. I’ve changed this according to what you suggest.

================================================================================

Configure your keyboard (even if it is not programmable) with a
beginner-friendly, simplified [Miryoku][1]-like approach to minimize finger
movements!

![base, navigation and sym layers on a 33-key keyboard](img/all.svg)

*Note: The keyboard layout presented here in the illustration is Qwerty but it

> works with others layouts as well — e.g. Azerty, Ergo‑L, Qwertz, Bépo, …*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
works with other layouts as well — e.g. Azerty, Qwertz, Ergo‑L, Bépo…*
```

**Bring the keys to your fingers, rather than moving your fingers to the keys!**

- A long press on the <kbd>Return</kbd> key brings up the <kbd>Symbol</kbd>
layer in blue, where all programming symbols are arranged for comfort and
efficiency.
- A long press on the <kbd>Space</kbd> bar brings up the <kbd>Navigation</kbd>
layer in orange, with a numpad, cursor navigation (<kbd>ESDF</kbd>) and one-hand
shortcuts.

This is how modern ergonomic keyboards work — e.g. [Planck][2], [Atreus][3],

> [Corne][4], [Ferris][5]… The goal here is to propose an approach that works

Reviewer: FTR, the numbers that were used here referred to the number of keys for each keyboard model. And I kinda liked it that way. :-) 
However, if GFM supports refs like `[Planck][]` (and a link definition with `[Planck]: https://…`), that would be a nice readability improvement.

with any keyboard, including your laptop’s.

*Note: You might benefit the most of Arsenik if you are [touch typing][6].*

> Modular approach

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modular Approach
```
(a.k.a. English title case)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> You can choose your options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable Arsenik features from the following options:
```

> - [angle mod][7] (by default the only option activated)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [angle mod][7] (the only enabled option by default)
```

- 3 home row mods (HRM) per hand for <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>, <kbd>Alt</kbd>,
<kbd>Super</kbd>
- 3 layer-tap keys under the thumbs: <kbd>Alt</kbd> (or <kbd>Shift</kbd> in
HRM)/<kbd>Backspace</kbd>, <kbd>Navigation</kbd>/<kbd>Space</kbd>,
<kbd>Symbol</kbd>/<kbd>Return</kbd>
- symbol layer: have all programmation characters at, at most, one key away from
your fingers
- num row or num pad
- navigation layer like in arrow cluster or Vim-like

> - use it with Qwerty, Ergo‑L, Azerty, Bépo, and many more keyboard layouts!

Reviewer: i’d take that out of the option list:

```suggestion

Use it with Qwerty, Qwertz, Azerty, Ergo‑L, Bépo, and many other keyboard layouts!
```
